Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
One more thing. Let me
tell you about a new
sponsor gun. If you're wanting
to detect and diagnose errors
and crashes in your software,
even find problems that you
didn't know existed to improve
your software, then Regan might
be perfect for you. He
had a few lines of
code your application, and in
minutes, you'll get real time
error reports with all the
information that you need to
fix bugs fast, you can
even hook it up to
your team chat, bug tracking
development, workflow tools. Reagan covers
all major web and mobile
programming languages, including.net, the full
Xamarin stack JavaScript, and many
more. Go check out Reagan
today@reagan.io. I use this myself
on my little startup and
I really, really recommend this
product. It is a great,
great product. Check it out.
Ray gun@reagan.io from Hanselman it's
dot com. It's Hanselman. That's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 86. In this
episode, Scott talks with dr.
Adrian Porterfield from Google about
designing usable security. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And today I'm talking with
dr. Adrianne Porterfield from Google.
She's a security researcher, and
she's got a PhD in
computer science from Berkeley. Thanks
for chatting with me today.
Great. It's nice to be
talking to you. So you
have got some really, really
interesting publications that talk about
some of the things that
you work on. You are
a security researcher, but security
is a big word that
talks about a lot of
different areas, right? You're not
focused on exploits as much
as you are about kind
of how people think about
security. Yeah, that's right. So
I'm on the Chrome usable
security team and we try
to help Chrome users and
developers make safe decisions online.
So although we are engineers
and designers, our main focus
is on building tools that
people can use in a
way that keeps them secure.
It seems like we always
talk about today's internet is
not yesterday's internet. I'm always
getting screenshots from my mom
or my nontechnical dad. You
know, my parents are not
technical and there'll be like,
is this a safe thing
to click? And they'll be
in the middle of an
activity, then something will happen
and they'll take a screenshot
of it and they'll mail
it to me and they'll
leave it there for hours
because of fear that, that
clicking this button, it might
be a fake popup. It
might be a screen, you
know, it might be a,
even a screenshot of a
fake Chrome dialogue. It's getting
to the point where they
just don't know how to
do anything on the internet
without being afraid that someone's
going to steal their, their
credit cards. Like why is
this today's internet? Yeah, that's
really unfortunate. And actually we
see a pretty wide range
of different reactions to the
threat of malware and phishing
and other things online. So
from talking to people, we
find that not experts tend
to be somewhere on a
spectrum between like your parents
somewhat paralyzed by fear of
what's out there online, sometimes
justifiably too, on the other
end, people who feel like
they're invincible on the internet.
So we talked to people
and they say things like
I use Linux, so nothing
could hurt me or, Oh,
I can do whatever I
want online because I have
antivirus installed, not realizing really
that, you know, Oh, your
antivirus might not protect you
from fishing. So it is
difficult to build tools that
address this huge, huge range
of people who have different
levels of technical expertise and
also different levels of risk
tolerance and, and fear. Is
it something that should be
automatic is security. Like I'm
thinking about my own life
security, right. I locked my
front door and I locked
my car and I don't
park in dodgy neighborhoods. And
I'm trying to think, what
else do I do? I
dunno, look people in the
eye when I walked by
them. I mean the personal
security is a pretty much
a thing it's like, well,
just be safe out there
and use good sense. But
that good sense came over
20 years of growing up
in my town and understanding
my town. Is that the
difference? Is it those that
are born on the web
understand security or are they
just as clueless as my
parents? I actually think sometimes
that the more experienced someone
has online, the more blind
they become to risks that
are there. So it very
much depends, but I, I
do agree with you. I
think a good end goal
would be for people to
not have to think about
security in order to remain
secure. So when I get
in my car and I
drive to work or to
the grocery store, I have
airbags, right. And I'm sure
there are steel beams and
all these other safety mechanisms
in my car. And I
don't think about them. I
just try not to hit
things. And I would like
to us to get to
a place where using technology
is the same way where
people who are using computers,
don't have to think about
security, unless there's a very
specific question that we need
to ask them, but is
very difficult because we're right
now in a place where
computers meaning. So for example,
I work on Chrome. So
I'll talk about Chrome. When
you hit something like an
SSL error, Chrome currently can't
really tell whether it's actually
an attack or not an
attack. So we're in this
uncomfortable position where now we
need to ask the user
to make a decision. But
unfortunately in most cases, user
might actually have less knowledge
of what's happening in that
situation than Chrome itself does.
So what I want, what
my me and my team
are trying to do is
make Chrome smarter so that
we can provide clear opinions,
recommendations, and tell people how
to fix the problem instead
of necessarily posing them a
question. But this is actually
a really hard technical challenge.
Yeah. There's so many things
that can be wrong. You
know, when a connection gets
open to another website, mutually,
it's fine. But when something
goes wrong, like, is it
actionable? Like for example, there's
a website that I manage
and actually I inherited it.
And I just learned a
couple of weeks ago that
the SSL certificate has expired.
But all of the people
who use the website are
super technical. So on the
mailing list of like, Hey,
you know, search, search, you
know, not working. So I
have to click through the
error. So I'm looking at
it right now. It says
your connection is not private.
Attackers may be trying to
steal your information from website.
And then it has very,
very small search date and
valid. Right. It's completely clear
to me what's wrong here,
but I don't even know,
like, this just means for
parent don't go here, but
what could could they fix
this? There's 15 different things
that could be wrong. It
also mentions their clock, which
my, my mom asked me
a lot about. Yeah. So
funny enough, we actually originally
thought that developer errors were
the cause of most fix
expired certificate errors, but well,
we actually ended up finding
was that a huge number
of people change the clocks
on their phones and on
their laptops. There are a
lot people doing that. So
I don't know if you
play candy crush or any
of these other teams, but
for a lot of them,
you get certain number of
prizes, tokens, however you want
to put it per day.
Okay. So it starts off.
Oh, Hey, you realize you
changed your clock to tomorrow?
Oh no. Yeah. Then you
get more prizes. Okay. So
for you soon, you're in
2019. And all of a
sudden using the internet, lots
of things look like they're
expired. And this is a
real problem. We have my
mind and it turns out
a huge number, like tens
of millions a month of
SSL errors are caused by
people changing their clocks like
that. I thought computers were
all as NTP synchronized. Now
You can turn that off
and change the date. So
this is actually something that
we see pretty common. Now
we've built a new error,
which will show Chrome has
some years heuristics in place
to try to guess if
the computer clock is wrong,
we're seeing this kind of
data drift. And instead of
showing an SSL SSL error,
in that instance, we'll actually
show something saying, Hey, we
think your clock is wrong.
Please fix your clock. Instead
of showing the scary, the
scary message that you just
read earlier, That would be
great. That would be, that
would be an extremely useful
thing. Like it plain English
with screenshots, like here's what's
going on. Yeah. And we're
working to look for for
more things like that. So
another example is sometimes if
people have antivirus on their
computer, but don't have it
installed correctly, it can lead
to lots of errors while
they're browsing the internet. So
another thing that we're working
on trying to do is
identify when you've got some
antivirus installed that hasn't been
set up. Right. And tell
you, Hey, you can keep
it enabled, but you need
to fix some configuration. Otherwise
you're going to keep seeing
these errors all across the
internet. I see. So configuration,
like having real time turned
off or things like that,
not having the plugin installed
in the browser. Yeah. All
these things can cause errors
that often people can fix.
They just don't know what
it is they need to
fix. See, I feel like
the security internet is being
split up between, you know,
the no's and the don't
knows. And it continues to
make computers themselves scary and
inaccessible to the regular person.
Like I don't want my
family to think it's their
fault. And it's that internalization
where it's like, Oh, they
stole my credit card. I'm
so sorry. It's my fault.
And it's like, it's not
your fault. Like the bad
guys are really bad, you
know, but, but my mom
took it really personally. So
there's a phrase we use
on our team, which is
don't pass along in decision.
And what this means to
us is if we're not
sure what to do, it's
kind of lame to then
ask the user what to
do instead. Now get, we
should give people control to
choose what they want to
do. But if we're going
to really indecisive place, we
shouldn't ask an equally indecisive
user to have to make
a decision. We should give
them a recommendation so that
if they're confused, they know
what to do. So this
is something we're working on.
But one thing that's important
to point out though, is
that we're actually still in
a place where honestly, people
who are otherwise very technical
still don't always understand what's
happening in terms of security.
That is very true. So
for example, I was talking
to someone the other day,
who was complaining to me
about some changes at chromate
made with how we treat
Shajuan. And they have been
to a website recently and
saw an error and attributed
it to this recent, you
know, very technical policy change.
And it turns out they're
completely unconnected. It was a
website that has self, self
sign certificate. And that's why
Chrome was showing an error.
But this very technical person
had conflated this, you know,
technical news story that they'd
read with error that they
saw in person. And they're
actually unrelated. And this person
was an engineer, right? So
even very technical people sometimes
get these things wrong. And
so it's important to realize
that even with a lot
of technical savvy security is
a niche area and Yeah,
I think that's definitely true.
I know that I've gotten
nailed a couple of times
by fake dialogues where they,
they, the, the bad guy
has drawn a dialog box
and then popped up a
picture of that dialogue box.
And my muscle memory clicked.
Okay. But by then, it's
too late, you know what
I'm saying? Like, it's like,
here's a picture of a
JavaScript pop up and then
by clicking it, then I'm
off and running. And I
would be very embarrassed. Well,
I mean, I'm saying it
publicly, but you know, anyone
would be embarrassed when they
feel like they've, it was
as a direct result of
their mistake, but when they're
actively tricked into doing something,
it's extremely frustrating. Yeah. I
mean, I think it happens
to all of us. So
I am a security researcher
and I used to specifically
study Android permissions. And yeah,
when I go and install
an Android application, I find
myself clicking through that dialogue
without reading it. Yeah. And
I, the person who's done
all this research on why
don't people read these dialogues.
Right. So it happens to
all of us. And that's
actually one of the reasons
why I'm really glad that
Android is moving to runtime
permissions in M because I
think it will help with
that problem of people not
looking at permissions during installation.
What does that mean? So
in the next release of
Android, instead of showing the
permission dialogue as you install,
when people are usually a
patient, right. They're trying to
install it as best as
I can. Yeah. It's in
my way. It's standing between
me and candy crush. Exactly.
So what's going to happen
instead is that after you
install an application, the first
time it needs to actually
use a permission, it'll show
you the prompts then. And
ideally it'll be in context.
So let's say the first
time you go to make,
I don't know, a Skype
call or something on your
phone, as you're about to
press, you know, the, the
call button it'll then ask,
how can we use your
microphone? And that'll make sense,
right? You're on your way
to make a phone call.
Of course he needs your
microphone. He'll click. Yes. As
opposed to sort of burying
this whole list of long
things, right. During installation. Yeah.
And sometimes the list of
things are pretty scary. I
have to admit that nontechnical
parents have sent me screenshots
of that and set, and
then they'll literally sit their
phone down and say, all
right, I'm going to put
this down. Actually, I've had
my dad take a picture
of a phone with his
other phone and say, is
this okay? And send me
that. And it's a whole
list of stuff. Like, I
don't know, it wants full
and complete control of your
phone. How badly do you
want this thing? Yeah. And
that is a challenge because
honestly, a lot of these
powers are actually fairly scary
powers. So for, you know,
any, any, anything that needs
your microphone for the generic
reason then has your microphone.
Right. Which is something that
is a scary power in
and of itself, even though
it's clear and understandable In
context, I don't know. Like
when do you want my
microphone? Are you listening in
the background? People are paranoid
about things like that. Yeah.
So I do hope that
the context driven permission request
model, which Android is moving
to and Chrome already uses,
I really do hope that
that will help clarify some
of that confusion. I want
to pivot a little bit
and talk about something that
I had to deal with
in banking. So before I
worked, where I work now,
I worked as a chief
architect doing retail online banking,
right when Evie SSL was
starting. So I was working
with banks, trying to get
them to go and get
the special, enhanced verification SSL
certificate. And at the time
2005, it was going to
turn the bar green on
all the browsers. It was
supposed to be a really
great thing and tell you
that there was implied trust,
not just privacy and this,
I thought this was going
to be amazing. Like, Oh
yeah. If your bank is
green, that's awesome. And if
it's not, that's a regular
SSL cert. So all the
technical people were talking to
each other and thought this
was awesome. But it turns
out that now everyone just
thinks that the little lock
means trust when it really
just means privacy. Yeah. This
is, this is a hard
problem for a few reasons.
I just don't notice Google
that common stuff actually doesn't
have an Evie certificate and
I'm, I love the dream
of Evie. So the dream
of EBI is what you
described that you can verify
that a website is who
they say they are because
they, third party has checked,
right? They've checked that when
you go to mint.com, it's
really mint.com and not someone
trying to get your password,
Right. They went there and
visited. That's why I always
assumed, But there are a
few problems with this. The
first is that often the
companies that own the websites
have a different name for
the website, you're going to,
so a fairly famous example
is that Intuit owns mint.
So you go to mint
and then in big green
letters, it says into it.
Yep. So that's a little
confusing. The second issue is
that currently the way UV
is set up, if you
can have a company named
into it in a municipality
in Germany and another one
in Sweden and another one
in Japan, and as long
as they're all companies that
are registered there, they can
all get an ed certificate
with that company name on
it. So there could be
500 Googles out there with
AB certificates for say, Google,
as long as they're actually
named that and their municipality.
Oh, wow. So it doesn't
become, it's not quite as
strong indicator of verified identity
as I like it to
be. Right. Right. So that
means also that all of
those certificates have to be,
you know, well taken care
of. And if the Google
of Moldova gets compromised, then
there's an EBV certificate floating
around somewhere that says Google.
Right, right. Yeah. That is
a big problem. And you
are totally right. Also I'm
on a second point about
people conflating the trustworthiness of
a website and the security
of the connection to the
website. And this is a
really difficult thing to convey
because most people have no
concept of how the website
is getting to them. Like
connection security. Isn't a meaningful
thing to them, right. They,
they, they're looking at it
on their computer and they
don't know how it got
there. And that's reasonable. Not
everyone should have to know
about surfers, but as a
result, explaining what our connection
security is, is really difficult.
And it's something that we're
still struggling with. I remember
I had a light bulb
go off in my head
a few months ago when
we had the UX researcher
that we work with, brought
some people in and she
was showing them a connection,
security indicators and warnings and
asking people to talk about
them. And at the time,
one of the warnings said,
this is not the site
you're looking for. And it
was supposed to be talking
about a connection problem. But
as people were looking at
it, they're saying, Oh, this
is about phishing. I better
look at the URL bar
to check that it's the
right URL. And I went,
Oh my gosh, they're totally
right. That does sound like
it's about fishing. Oh. So
we've been trying to address
that. But without being able
to explain really what a
connection is or what a
server is, people still very
much conflate the two topics.
There is so much context
that is, that is missing.
I always try to put
it in the context of
like a phone call yesterday.
True story. I got a
phone call from my local
area code and I assumed
it was someone I knew
and the person said, hi,
I'm calling from the, the
compliance office and any, any
spoke with such an authority
that I felt suddenly that
I was in compliant. And,
and he's like, you know,
I'm calling about your business.
I want to make sure
that we can turn it
into like what office. And
he just kept pushing through
everything I would say. And
I was like, if I
put it together, he had
a burner phone and he
eventually just got frustrated with
me and hung up. And
then when I called back,
the phone was dead. You
know what I mean? So
like, that's the kind of
the man in the middle
attack. Like, what I should
have done would be like,
well, give me the number
of the office where you
are, and I'll call you
back and call through the
receptionist. And, and then we
would have a trusting relationship
here. But the initial level
of the trust relationship was
like looking at an address
bar. It's like, ah, it
seems legit. I remember there
was a time a while
back where someone had registered
microsoft.com with a Cyrillic C
so people could click on
it and it totally looked
legit. So we, yeah, that
is a problem. You know,
this would have been easier
to explain. I think when
I like in the early
nineties, when everyone was using
landlines, because this is a
great natural analogy, what a
designer that I worked with
Alex, Ainsley came up with
this idea of using an
analogy of someone picking up
on the phone line. So,
Oh, okay. You're so you're
talking to google.com on the
phone and then maybe, you
know, you're like kid sister
picks up and is listening
to, right. So your kid's
sister here is a man
in the middle attacker. And
the person you're talking to
is say, Google, and this
is nice because there's two
separate identities here that people
can reason about. But the
problem is, if you're a
teenager today, you may have
never really used a landline.
Like the concept of someone
picking up on a phone
call, maybe just as abstract
to you. There are many
countries where, you know, they
sort of shot straight into
the mobile technology without going
through landlines first because perhaps
they're in a remote area,
whatever. And so that analogy
fails for them. So we're
still trying to figure out
what another analogy is. That
would be as equally recognizable
as you know, that one
would have been in the
eighties or nineties with phones.
That is a tough problem.
Like obviously you're thinking about
it much deep, more deeply
than I am, but nothing
jumps to mind. And I
was literally showing an old
movie to my kids. I
think it was like the
Goonies, you know, and that
kind of iconic idea, like
the phone rings, Hey, pick
up the phone kit upstairs
because the phone came, mom,
hang up the phone. That
was like our lives. And
my children have absolutely no
concept of any of that.
Even our landlines of VoIP
phone. So one of the
other things that you've worked
on is the malware warning.
And you're saying that a
number of users click through
that, they basically have gotten
to the point where they
just ignore the malware warning
and they're like, yeah, this
could be unsafe. Yeah. And
they clicked through, how does
that research work? How do
you find out why people
ignore warnings and how do
you know how many people
do in fact click through
warnings and why? A few
years ago, we started looking
at how often people click
through warnings. And I have
to admit, we originally expected
a really bleak picture. The
common wisdom at the time
was everyone clicks through warnings.
So I went into this
thinking, Oh, 90% of people
are going to be ignoring
warnings. That was the prevailing
wisdom in the community at
the time. And it turned
out that wasn't true. Although
more people clicked through warnings
than we would like it
wasn't anywhere near 90%. Actually,
as of two years ago,
it was about 30% of
the time people would ignore
the warning, but 70% of
the time they would pay
attention to it. So most
of the time people were
heating our advice. And since
then we've been improving the
warnings and getting better at
it. And now the rate
is about 10%, maybe a
little lower or higher, depending
on the time period and
the way we've, we've done.
This is there, there are
a few ways. So first
of all, browsers like Chrome
and Firefox have ways to
synonymously tell whether someone has
clicked through a warning or
not. So we can, for
people who have opted into
sharing some basic, we call
it telemetry data. But what
it means is we can
see bullions like, have you
clicked through a warning or
not? That gets shared with
take Google or with Mozilla.
We can't say that URL
of course, but we can
tell whether people in aggregate
are clicking through warnings or
not. So we can use
that information to compute what
we call the click through
rate, which is how often
people ignore the warning. And
we also do things like
have people come into a
lab study and talk to
a UX researcher and run
mechanical Turk studies with controlled
experiments where you try different
types of UI. And we
also ask people open ended
questions. Like, you know, what
do you think this is
learning is saying as is,
is a really powerful question,
even though it's so simple
and through all these different,
all of these different types
of ways of asking people
questions and seeing what their
behaviors are, we can try
to pinpoint factors that will
influence people to not disregard
our advice. Because actually when
it comes to safe browsing
warnings, they're really accurate. It's
not like SSL warnings. We
have a very strong idea
when there's malware being served
on a page. So we're
very confident that the warnings
are right. And we really
don't want people to click
through them. Brainstorming. Why let
them, like, why not make
it like really hard, like
go to about flags and
say, I'm really sure I'm
needed. Like why not make
it? So you just can't
do it with a simple
click. No, this is actually
a really controversial topic right
now there's are many differing
opinions about, so there's a
range of how paternalistic software
can be. Right. So That's
a really interesting word, but
that's great. Like applying paternal
to the, yeah. The, the
nanny state, right? How daddy,
like, should my browser really
be, be careful, look both
ways before you cross the
road. Yeah. So there's a
tension, right? We want to
keep people safe and we
don't want to pass along
in decision. We don't, we
don't want to be asking
people, lots of questions. We
kind of want the browser
to do the right thing.
But on the other hand,
we want people to remain
in control of technology. It's
a bad feeling. If your
computer won't let you do
something that you want to
do, right. That's, that's not
something that I enjoy when
I encounter it. I find
it frustrating that I can't
do this thing I want
to, I really want to
do so. We have a
delicate trade off between all
the, all these different factors
and where we're currently at
from our warnings is we
try to make it somewhat
difficult to click through the
warning. Like you have to
click on details first, and
then there's a link if
you hunt around for it
in the text. So it's
not, you know, there's not
like a big red button
click here to go to
this page at Miller. We,
we definitely discourage it and
we share an opinion and
you have to really want
to find it to find
it, but we still let
you do it. If you
really want to. Interesting. I
was, as you were saying
that I'm thinking, but you're
making self driving cars, but,
but I was watching the
fifth element and he turns
off the self-driving feature to
consciously crashed the car. And
the car was like, you're
going to crash. He's like,
no, I'm really I'm mean
to crash. It's okay. I
know what I'm doing. That
makes total sense. Yeah. For
clarity, I think the self
driving cars still let the
people drive. Well, yeah, you
can always flip it. I
know. I'm just saying you
can always flip it in.
I'm just thinking about all
the movies. Like the one
where Arnold Schwarzenegger goes to
Mars and he gets into
the Johnny cab and the
Johnny cab is just drives
him around and he's not
allowed to do that at
all. And he ended up,
ends up having to take
control of the car because
it is very much wants
to get him where he
wants to go. Yeah. I
mean, I want to be
healthy, but I also don't
want my feet freezer to
refuse to unlock, to get
me to the ice cream.
Right. So it is a
trade off. That is an
awesome analogy. That's fantastic. Interesting.
Okay. So what kinds of
studies are you running right
now? We've talked about some
of the ones that you've
done in the past, and
you've been doing this for
years and years. Yeah. So
right now, one of our
main efforts is called the
Chrome user experience survey platform.
And we've been asking people
to install an extension and
the extension will periodically survey
you. If you do something,
if you encounter a warning
or if you, you know,
interact with URL bar in
a certain way, or do
different sort of things every
once in a while, it'll
show you a little notification
and ask you to tell
us about what just happened
in your experience with that
interaction, with that piece of
UI. And we we've had
some success with this several
thousand people have installed it
this far. And I'm really
grateful that they have, because
the data that we're getting
back is very insightful where
we're seeing in context, what
people are thinking about these
different pieces of UI that
we're showing them, What is
it called? That's I, that
sounds super interesting. I love
stuff like that. Like I
like there's some features in
windows where if you do
something it's like, you know,
you could have used the
hot key. It's like, I
totally forgot. I love stuff
like that. What is this
called? It's the Chrome user
experience survey. And it's in
the, the Chrome web store
with extensions under the, by
Google tab. Okay, cool. Chrome
user experience service. We'll go
ahead. And we'll add that
to the show notes, to
make sure that people can,
can check that out. And
is it it's pretty passive.
It just kind of watches
and says, Oh, that looks
interesting. What you just did.
Take a quick survey. Yeah,
exactly. And it's capped. So
it won't show you lots
of surveys. It's surveys fairly
infrequently. Okay, cool. So it's
not nagging you all the
time. No. Right. That would
be annoying. Interesting. So you
also worked, like you said,
on, on privacy and security
on, on phones. Yeah. So
my, that was actually, my
dissertation work in graduate school
was looking at permission systems.
So for Chrome extensions and
for Android applications to look
at how well the permission
model works in a permission
model is when you see
an application asking, Hey, can
I have access to location?
That kind of thing. In
the, in the title of
your, one of your papers,
you said I've got 99
problems, but vibration ain't one
that I thought that was
pretty, pretty fantastic title if
you're going to do one.
Yeah. So vibration is actually
a funny thing because it
isn't really a security risk.
It's more, just a possible
annoyance, but yet we see
that social engineering sites love
it. They want to get
your attention, right? They want
you, they want to use
this to get your attention,
to look at their piece
of, you know, their fake
popup or whatever it is
that they're trying to sell
you. They want to get
your attention. So they're using
the vibrant API. So weirdly
enough, even though people don't
find vibrate, a particularly threatening
permission to have, we see
it being fairly widely used
annoyingly. So it's kind of
an odd situation with that
specific API. I think though,
also too. And again, I
have only my parents as
my, my user base, I'm
it support for, you know,
we all, w I'm sure
you are as well, right?
We're all it support for
our family. They feel that
there's some authenticity in the
vibrate though. And the phone
vibrates, it was the phone
that vibrated, as opposed to
the site told the phone,
can you vibrate for me?
So when a vibration occurs,
they perceive it as being
from the core of the
phone and it has more,
more weight. It's more important.
Yeah, it's true. I think
it does do that. And
that's why these bad sites
are trying to make use
of the vibration API. But
I am hearing when you
ask people, you know, how
concerning do you find the
vibrant API? Would you always
say, people said, why are
you even asking me it's
fiber? Just go ahead and
give it. It doesn't like
to them. They don't, I
don't think people consciously realize
the effect that using vibration
has on them. I see
what you're saying. So they
approve it and they've forgotten
about it. And then, you
know, weeks later a site
uses it or an app
uses it and they come.
And another thing actually is
how do you take those
things back with all four
phones on all platforms? I've
always found it difficult to
revoke permissions. Like I just
click accept and it's done,
but I have to go
digging to make you stop
using it. Yeah. We're vacation
is actually something we've been
working on a lot and
you'll see the story getting
better. So for Android in
starting in, em, you'll see
that you can now take
back permissions and settings, which
you didn't used to be
able to do before. So
that's a new thing. And
also on Chrome, if you've
given it permission to a
website, just click on the
lock and right there will
be a list of all
the permissions you've given and
you can easily flip them
back. And we've been making
lots of improvements there because
one of the things we
worry about is a people
want to try stuff out,
right. And they're not going
to try it out if
they're afraid that they can't
undo it. So we want
to make it a lot
easier to undo. And there's
been a lot of work
going on around that. And
also we actually w we
don't want to annoy people
who we sometimes like to
be able to guess, Hey,
yeah. Okay. You're going to
say yes to allow this
website to use vibrate, but
then if it starts annoying,
you, you should still be
able to undo it. So
having a better revocation story,
let's just experiment a little
bit more with what API
APIs are available without asking
user about it first. And
of course, we'd never do
that for anything privacy sensitive,
but for ones like vibrate
that are mostly about obnoxiousness,
it gives us some flexibility.
Very cool. I really appreciate
you chatting with me today.
Thanks. Nice talking, dr. Adrianne
Porterfield is a security and
privacy researcher at Google, and
she's currently focused on designing
and building usable security. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.